Module landing page and guide: scroll-driven animations (#41737)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_scroll-driven_animations/timelines/index.md

slug: Web/CSS/CSS_scroll-driven_animations/Timelines
page-type: guide
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/scroll-animations-1/
sidebar: cssref
---

A common UI pattern involves animating elements in direct response to scrolling, as the user scrolls across a page. These _scroll-driven animations_ have been implemented in many places, including effects that respond to user scrolling up and down a page, or left and right on overflowing content.

The properties defined in the [CSS scroll-driven animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_scroll-driven_animations) module expand upon [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animations) by enabling animating property values defined in {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animations in response to user interaction.

This guide provides an overview of using CSS for scroll-driven animation timelines and creating scroll-driven animations.

## What is scroll-driven animation

The [CSS scroll-driven animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_scroll-driven_animations) module defines properties that enable linking [CSS keyframe animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animations/Using_CSS_animations#defining_an_animation_sequence_using_keyframes) to scrolling.

> Animations can be set to progress along a scroll-based timeline instead of the default time-based document timeline, without needing JavaScript. This means that, by [defining which animation timeline](#animation_timelines) to use, you can animate an element by scrolling a scrollable element, rather than just by the passing of time with CSS.

Reviewer: This whole section feels repetitive, wordy, and hard to follow. It needs to be cut down to explain what scroll-driven animations are in terms of the effect created, without including all the properties and other code features required to implement them. You explain those later on.

Scroll-driven animations are CSS animations that are not run on the default [DocumentTimeline](/en-US/docs/Web/API/DocumentTimeline); rather, on a scroll-progress or view-progress timeline, which is driven by user scrolling.

In scroll-driven animations, there's a direct link between the user's scrolling action and the animation's progress along the `@keyframe` keyframes. Instead of progressing through animation keyframes over time, the scroll-driven animation progresses based on the scroll position of overflowing content within its scroll port. As the user scrolls up, down, left, or right, the animation moves forward or backward through the keyframe progression. When scrolling is paused, the animation pauses, as if `animation-play-state` were set to `pause`.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add a section that summarizes what you need to create a scroll-driven animation, and then walk through each step in the subsequent sections. You kind of do this below, but it would be nice to help the reader understand all that's involved first with a summary. It is pretty complex stuff, after all.

## Animation timelines

> All animations run on a timeline. In CSS, you can have regular CSS animations that progress over time, or you can set animations to progress based on scrolling, using either a _scroll progress timeline_ or a _view progress timeline_.

Reviewer: It feels like you make this point several times earlier on.

```css live-sample___regular
:checked ~ .container > .item {
  animation-name: action;
  animation-duration: 3s;
  animation-delay: 3s;
  animation-timeline: auto;
}
```

We create a rotation keyframe animation called `action`:

```css live-sample___regular live-sample___named_scroll live-sample___anon_scroll
@keyframes action {
  from {
    rotate: 45deg;
  }
  to {
    rotate: 765deg;
  }
}
```

```html hidden live-sample___regular
<input type="checkbox" id="i" />
<label for="i">
  Check to apply the animation. Uncheck to remove the animation
</label>
<div class="container">
  <span class="item"></span>
</div>
```

```css hidden live-sample___regular
div {
  width: 400px;
  height: 100px;
  border: 1px solid;
  background-color: palegoldenrod;
  position: relative;
}
span {
  --size: 50px;
  height: var(--size);
  width: var(--size);
  background-color: magenta;
  border: 1px solid;
  position: absolute;
  left: calc(50% - (var(--size) / 2));
  top: calc(50% - (var(--size) / 2));
}
```

When the checkbox is checked, the `action` animation is applied to the element. When unchecked, the animation is not applied to the `<div>`.

{{EmbedLiveSample("regular", "100%", "150")}}

> Try checking the checkbox. Nothing will happen during the 3-second animation delay. Then, once the animation starts, the box will jump to a 45 degree rotation, and then it will take 3 seconds to rotate an additional 720 degrees, or two additional full rotations. After a total of six seconds, the animation concludes, and the `<div>` will return to its default non-rotated state.

Author: ```suggestion
Try checking the checkbox. Nothing will happen during the half-second animation delay. Then, once the animation starts, the box will jump to a 45 degree rotation, and then it will take 3 seconds to rotate an additional 720 degrees, or two additional full rotations. After a total of three and half seconds, the animation concludes, and the `<div>` will return to its default non-rotated state.
```

### `animation-timeline` and the `animation` shorthand

The `animation-timeline` is reset to the default `auto` value by the {{cssxref("animation")}} shorthand property, but cannot be set using the shorthand. Therefore, when creating scroll-driven animations, always declare the `animation-timeline` after any `animation` shorthand declarations to achieve the desired effect.

### Scroll progress timelines

> With _scroll progress timeline_, the timeline progresses based on the scrolling of the scrollable element (_scroller_) from top to bottom (or left to right) and back again. By default, the position in the scroll range is converted into a percentage of progress — `0%` at the start and `100%` at the end. This [animation range can be controlled](#controlling_the_animation_range) via the {{cssxref("animation-range")}} properties.

Reviewer: Update — you don't actually cover the range stuff at all in this article. I think that's OK, as it is quite long already. But update it to remove dead references/links for now. I'd cover these in a separate article, later on.

> With _scroll progress timeline_, the timeline progresses based on the scrolling of the scrollable element (_scroller_) from top to bottom (or left to right) and back again. By default, the position in the scroll range is converted into a percentage of progress — `0%` at the start and `100%` at the end. This [animation range can be controlled](#controlling_the_animation_range) via the {{cssxref("animation-range")}} properties.

Author: the article was so long i cut out the animation range stuff to put in a second guide which i'll create when i get back from Japan.

To create a scroll progress timeline, the `animation-timeline` value must reference the scroller. The _scroller_, the element that provides the scroll progress timeline, can be named or anonymous.

#### Named scroll progress timelines

A _named scroll progress timeline_ is one where the scroller is explicitly named using the {{cssxref("scroll-timeline-name")}} property (or the {{cssxref("scroll-timeline")}} shorthand). The name is a {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}. This name is applied to the scroller, the {{glossary("scroll container")}} whose scrolling controls the progress of the animation timeline. The scroller is linked to the element to be animated by specifying its name as the value of that element's `animation-timeline` property.

> Our HTML includes three elements: the `item`, which we will be animating; its `container`, which we will be scrolling; and the' scroller', which will need to be large enough to overflow its `scroller` parent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our HTML includes three elements: the `item`, which we will be animating; its `container`, which we will be scrolling; and the scroller. The `container` needs to be large enough to overflow its `scroller` parent: If there is no scrolling, there will be no scroll timeline.
```

```html live-sample___named_scroll live-sample___anon_scroll
<main class="scroller">
  <div class="container">
    <span class="item"></span>
  </div>
</main>
```

> We provide some basic styles, which we've hidden for brevity. The important styles include setting a height on the container that is taller than the scroller, and then setting the overflow to allow scrolling (if there is no scrolling, there will be no scroll timeline):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide some basic styles, which we've hidden for brevity. The important styles include setting a height on the container that is taller than the scroller, and then setting the overflow to allow scrolling:
```

Moved to the other suggestion above.

```css hidden live-sample___named_scroll live-sample___anon_scroll
.scroller {
  width: 400px;
  height: 100px;
  overflow: scroll;
}
.container {
  height: 200px;
}
```

Setting an `animation-timeline` on the animated element that matches the `scroll-timeline-name` of an ancestor element is what creates the named scroll progress timeline. We also have to include an animation, which we do by setting the value of the `animation-name` component of the {{cssxref("animation")}} shorthand to the {{cssxref("custom-ident")}} name of our keyframe animation:

```css live-sample___named_scroll
.scroller {
  scroll-timeline-name: --rotate;
}
.item {
  animation: action 1ms linear;
  animation-timeline: --rotate;
}
```

```css hidden live-sample___named_scroll live-sample___anon_scroll
main {
  border: 1px solid;
  background-color: palegoldenrod;
}
div {
  position: relative;
}
span {
  --size: 50px;
  height: var(--size);
  width: var(--size);
  background-color: magenta;
  border: 1px solid;
  position: absolute;
  left: calc(50% - (var(--size) / 2));
  top: calc(50% - (var(--size) / 2));
}
```

> In this case, we don't have a checkbox, as the `action` animation progression is controlled by the scrolling of the overflowing scroller, which, unlike time, does not expire.

Author: keeping regular animation example

##### Animation duration

You may have noticed that the {{cssxref("animation-duration")}} component of the `animation` shorthand was set to `1ms`. When creating [CSS scroll-driven animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_scroll-driven_animations), specifying an `animation-duration` value has no effect on the duration of the animation, and shouldn't be necessary. However, while a duration has no effect on scroll progress timeline animations, durations can have an effect on non-linear view progress animation timelines, and Firefox requires a non-zero `animation-duration` to apply an animation to an element. For these reasons, it is common practice to set `animation-duration` to `1ms`.

Setting `animation-durations: 1ms` ensures that the animation works in Firefox, that the animation effect is consistent across all browsers, and that the animation is not visible if a browser doesn't support view progress animation timelines. If the browser supports `@keyframe` animations, the animation will not be visible to the user, but the animation still happens, and animation events are fired.

#### Anonymous scroll progress timelines

> You don't have to name your scroll progress timeline. Instead, you can associate an _anonymous scroll progress timeline_. In this case, the `animation-timeline` of the element to animate is set to a {{cssxref("animation-timeline/scroll", "scroll()")}} function. The function selects the scroller that provides the scroll progress timeline and the scroll axis to use based on the optional arguments you pass to it. One parameter is a [`<scroller>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-timeline/scroll#scroller) keyword defining the relationship of the scroller element to the current element (`nearest`, `root`, or `self`). The other is the scrollbar [`<axis>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-timeline/scroll#axis) value (`block`, `inline`, `y`, or `x`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You don't have to name your scroll progress timeline. Instead, you can associate an _anonymous scroll progress timeline_ with the animation. In this case, the `animation-timeline` of the element to animate is set to a {{cssxref("animation-timeline/scroll", "scroll()")}} function. The function selects the scroller that provides the scroll progress timeline and the scroll axis to use based on the optional arguments you pass to it. One parameter is a [`<scroller>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-timeline/scroll#scroller) keyword defining the relationship of the scroller element to the current element (`nearest`, `root`, or `self`). The other is the scrollbar [`<axis>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-timeline/scroll#axis) value (`block`, `inline`, `y`, or `x`).
```

> We use all the same CSS as in the previous examples, except for the `animation-timeline`, which we set to a `scroll()` function. We are also overriding the size of the container to change the direction of the scroll:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses all the same CSS as the previous example, except for the `animation-timeline`, which we set to a `scroll()` function. We are also overriding the size of the container to change the direction of the scroll:
```

```css live-sample___named_view live-sample___anon_view
@keyframes action {
  from,
  20% {
    rotate: 45deg;
  }
  80%,
  to {
    rotate: 720deg;
  }
}
```

```css hidden live-sample___named_view live-sample___anon_view live-sample___anon_view_args
.scroller {
  width: 400px;
  height: 100px;
  overflow: scroll;
  border: 1px solid;
  background-color: palegoldenrod;
}
.item {
  --size: 50px;
  height: var(--size);
  width: var(--size);
  background-color: magenta;
  border: 1px solid;
  left: calc(50% - (var(--size) / 2));
  top: calc(50% - (var(--size) / 2));
}
```

```html hidden live-sample___named_view live-sample___anon_view live-sample___anon_view_args
<main class="scroller">
  <p>Scroll down to view the animation</p>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
  <div class="item"></div>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
  <p>Scroll up to view the animation</p>
</main>
```

> {{EmbedLiveSample("named_view", "100%", "150")}}

Author: I'll make the animation taller

Scroll the element into view. Note that the element animates through the `@keyframe` animation as it moves through the visible area of its ancestor scroller.

#### Anonymous view progress timeline: the `view()` function

Alternatively, the CSS {{cssxref("animation-timeline/view", "view()")}} function can be used to specify that the `animation-timeline` for an element is a view progress timeline. An _anonymous view progress timeline_ is one in which the subject is given a `view()` function as an `animation-timeline` value, causing it to be animated based on its position inside its nearest parent scroller.

> The `view()` function is used to create a view timeline. You attach the timeline to the element you want to animate using the `animation-timeline` property. The function creates a view timeline for each element matched by the selector.

Reviewer: Do we need this paragraph? We already said all this in the previous paragraph.

Unlike the scroll timeline's `scroll()` function, there is no `<scroller>` argument in the `view()` function, as the view timeline always tracks the subject within its nearest ancestor scroll container.

In this case, as we are using inset values, we can use the `from` and `to` keyframe selectors.

```css live-sample___anon_view_args
@keyframes action {
  from {
    rotate: 45deg;
  }
  to {
    rotate: 720deg;
  }
}

.item {
  animation: action 1ms linear;
  animation-timeline: view(block 20% 20%);
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("anon_view_args", "100%", "150")}}

## Accessibility concerns

As with all animations and transitions, always take any user's [`prefers-reduced-motion`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion) preference into account.

> ### Removing an animation's timeline

Author: Removing the timeline is part of the a11y example, so it fits under this section.

It is mentioned in animation-timeline page under `none`, and isn't the point of this page, so doesn't need to be promoted above all other timelines. There are very few h2s in this page, so making this an H2 would make it the only

---
title: Scroll-driven animation timelines
slug: Web/CSS/CSS_scroll-driven_animations/Timelines
page-type: guide
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/scroll-animations-1/
sidebar: cssref
---

A common UI pattern involves animating elements in direct response to scrolling, as the user scrolls across a page. These _scroll-driven animations_ have been implemented in many places, including effects that respond to user scrolling up and down a page, or left and right on overflowing content.

The properties defined in the [CSS scroll-driven animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_scroll-driven_animations) module expand upon [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animations) by enabling animating property values defined in {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animations in response to user interaction.

> This guide provides an overview of using CSS for scroll-driven animation timelines and creating scroll-driven animations.

Author: ```suggestion
This guide provides an overview of using CSS to create scroll-driven animation timelines and animations.
```

#### Named scroll progress timelines

A _named scroll progress timeline_ is one where the scroller is explicitly named using the {{cssxref("scroll-timeline-name")}} property (or the {{cssxref("scroll-timeline")}} shorthand). The name is a {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}. The scroller is linked to the element to be animated by specifying its `scroll-timeline-name` as the value of that element's `animation-timeline` property.

Our HTML includes three elements: the `item`, which we will be animating; its `container`, which we will be scrolling; and the scroller. The `container` needs to be large enough to overflow its `scroller` parent: If there is no scrolling, there will be no scroll timeline.

```html live-sample___named_scroll live-sample___anon_scroll
<main class="scroller">
  <div class="container">
    <span class="item"></span>
  </div>
</main>
```

We provide some basic styles, which we've hidden for brevity. The important styles include setting a height on the container that is taller than the scroller, and then setting the overflow to allow scrolling:

> ```css hidden live-sample___named_scroll live-sample___anon_scroll

Author: ```suggestion
```css live-sample___named_scroll live-sample___anon_scroll
```

Scroll the element into view. Note that the element animates through the `@keyframe` animation as it moves through the visible area of its ancestor scroller.

### Anonymous view progress timeline: the `view()` function

Alternatively, a {{cssxref("animation-timeline/view", "view()")}} function can be set as the value of the `animation-timeline` property to specify that an element's animation timeline is an _anonymous view progress timeline_. This causes the element to be animated based on its position inside its nearest parent scroller.

The `view()` function is used to create a view timeline. You attach the timeline to the element you want to animate using the `animation-timeline` property. The function creates a view timeline for each element matched by the selector.

In this example, we again define the `animation` before the `animation-timeline`, so the timeline is not reset. We then include an argument-less `view()` function. We don't specify a scroller, as, by definition, the subject's visibility is tracked by its nearest ancestor scroller.

```css live-sample___anon_view
.item {
  animation: action 1ms linear;
  animation-timeline: view();
}
```

> {{EmbedLiveSample("anon_view", "100%", "150")}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{EmbedLiveSample("anon_view", "100%", "250")}}
```

The function sets the values of the {{cssxref("view-timeline-axis")}} and {{cssxref("view-timeline-inset")}} properties.

The {{cssxref("view-timeline-inset")}} arguments specify insets (if positive) or outsets (if negative) that adjust the start and end of the scrollport. They are used to determine the scroll positions at which the element is considered "in view", which determines the length of the animation timeline. In other words, instead of starting at the start edge and ending at the end edge of the scrollport, the animation occurs at the start and end of the inset-adjusted view.

Unlike the scroll timeline's `scroll()` function, there is no `<scroller>` argument in the `view()` function, as the view timeline always tracks the subject within its nearest ancestor scroll container.

In this example, as we are using inset values, we can use the `from` and `to` keyframe selectors.

```css live-sample___anon_view_args
@keyframes action {
  from {
    rotate: 45deg;
  }
  to {
    rotate: 720deg;
  }
}

.item {
  animation: action 1ms linear;
  animation-timeline: view(block 20% 20%);
}
```

> {{EmbedLiveSample("anon_view_args", "100%", "150")}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{EmbedLiveSample("anon_view_args", "100%", "250")}}
```

### Performance benefits

CSS scroll-driven animations are performant. JavaScript scroll driven animations require [`scroll`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/scroll_event) event listeners and {{domxref("IntersectionObserver")}} objects on the {{glossary("main thread")}} to track elements across the [scrollport](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Scroll_container#scrollport). Any time you rely on the main thread to render effects with JavaScript, you run the risk of blocking the main thread,hich can lead to an unresponsive page and a bad user experience, or {{glossary("jank")}}. Since CSS scroll-driven animations are native to the web platform, JavaScript isn't necessary.

### Foundations

Scroll driven animations build upon [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animations) and the [Web Animations API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Animations_API). Prior to creating scroll-driven animations, you must have an understanding of CSS {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animations. See the [using CSS animations guide](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animations/Using_CSS_animations) to learn more.

> In CSS, animations created by attaching keyframe animations to an element using the {{cssxref("animation-name")}} property (or {{cssxref("animation")}} shorthand). By default, animations run on the default document timeline, moving from the `from` keyframe to the `to` keyframe as time passes by, with the animation lasting as long as the time defined by the {{cssxref("animation-duration")}} property value. When set to run on the default document timeline, animations play through completion unless prevented, such as by having the {{cssxref("animation-play-state")}} set to `paused` or by removing the `animation-name` from the element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In CSS, animations are created by attaching keyframe animations to an element using the {{cssxref("animation-name")}} property (or {{cssxref("animation")}} shorthand). By default, animations run on the default document timeline, moving from the `from` keyframe to the `to` keyframe as time passes by, with the animation lasting as long as the time defined by the {{cssxref("animation-duration")}} property value. When set to run on the default document timeline, animations play through to completion unless prevented from doing so, for example, by having the {{cssxref("animation-play-state")}} set to `paused` or by removing the `animation-name` from the element.
```

> Scroll-driven animations are CSS animations that are not run on the default [DocumentTimeline](/en-US/docs/Web/API/DocumentTimeline); rather, on a scroll-progress or view-progress timeline, which is driven by user scrolling.There's a direct link between the user's scrolling action and the animation's progress along the `@keyframe` keyframes. Instead of progressing through animation keyframes over time, the scroll-driven animation progresses based on the scroll position of overflowing content within its scroll port. As the user scrolls up, down, left, or right, the animation moves forward or backward through the keyframe progression. When scrolling is paused, the animation pauses, as if `animation-play-state` were set to `pause`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scroll-driven animations are CSS animations that are not run on the default [DocumentTimeline](/en-US/docs/Web/API/DocumentTimeline). Instead, they run on a scroll-progress or view-progress timeline, which is driven by the scrolling of an element's contents. There's a direct link between the user's scrolling action and the animation's progress along the `@keyframe` keyframes. As the user scrolls up, down, left, or right, the animation moves forward or backward through the keyframe progression. When scrolling is paused, the animation pauses, as if `animation-play-state` were set to `pause`.
```

Reviewer: I am suggesting removing that sentence because it seems repetitive.

### Regular CSS animations: default document timeline

By default, CSS animation progression is based on the time-based document timeline.

Setting `animation-timeline` explicitly to `auto`, or omitting the property and allowing it to default to `auto`, sets the timeline to be the default document timeline. When set to this default value, the animation's progress is determined by the {{cssxref("animation-duration")}}, the {{cssxref("animation-delay")}}, and how much time has passed since the animation was associated with the element via the `animation-name` property. The time-based document timeline is the timeline traditionally associated with CSS animations.

```css live-sample___regular
:checked ~ .container > .item {
  animation-name: action;
  animation-duration: 3s;
  animation-delay: 500ms;
  animation-timeline: auto;
}
```

We create a rotation keyframe animation called `action`:

```css live-sample___regular live-sample___named_scroll live-sample___anon_scroll
@keyframes action {
  from {

>     rotate: 45deg;

Author: intentional. The jerk helps the reader when that the animation is applied versus when it isn't

> [!NOTE]
> The `animation-timeline` is reset to the default `auto` value by the {{cssxref("animation")}} shorthand property, but cannot be set using the shorthand. Therefore, when creating scroll-driven animations, always declare the `animation-timeline` after any `animation` shorthand declarations to achieve the desired effect.

### Scroll progress timelines

With _scroll progress timeline_, the timeline progresses based on the scrolling of the scrollable element (_scroller_) from top to bottom (or left to right) and back again. By default, the position in the scroll range is converted into a percentage of progress — `0%` at the start and `100%` at the end. <!--This [animation range can be controlled](#controlling_the_animation_range) via the {{cssxref("animation-range")}} properties.-->

To create a scroll progress timeline, the `animation-timeline` value must reference the scroller. The _scroller_, the element that provides the scroll progress timeline, can be named or anonymous.

#### Named scroll progress timelines

> A _named scroll progress timeline_ is one where the scroller (the {{glossary("scroll container")}} whose scrolling controls the progress of the animation timeline) is explicitly named using the {{cssxref("scroll-timeline-name")}} property (or the {{cssxref("scroll-timeline")}} shorthand). The name is a {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}. The scroller is linked to the element to be animated by specifying its `scroll-timeline-name` as the value of that element's `animation-timeline` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _named scroll progress timeline_ is one where the scroller is explicitly named using the {{cssxref("scroll-timeline-name")}} property (or the {{cssxref("scroll-timeline")}} shorthand). The name is a {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}. The scroller is linked to the element to be animated by specifying its `scroll-timeline-name` as the value of that element's `animation-timeline` property.
```

Our HTML includes three elements: the `item`, which we will be animating; its `container`, which we will be scrolling; and the scroller. The `container` needs to be large enough to overflow its `scroller` parent: If there is no scrolling, there will be no scroll timeline.

```html live-sample___named_scroll live-sample___anon_scroll
<main class="scroller">
  <div class="container">
    <span class="item"></span>
  </div>
</main>
```

> We provide some basic styles, which we've hidden for brevity. The important styles include setting a height on the container that is taller than the scroller, and then setting the overflow to allow scrolling:

Reviewer: This reads weirdly, as you are introducing some styles but then not showing them. Maybe just show them all? They don't take up that much space.

}
.container {
  height: 200px;
}
```

Setting an `animation-timeline` on the animated element that matches the `scroll-timeline-name` of an ancestor element is what creates the named scroll progress timeline. We also have to include an animation, which we do by setting the value of the `animation-name` component of the {{cssxref("animation")}} shorthand to the {{cssxref("custom-ident")}} name of our keyframe animation:

```css live-sample___named_scroll
.scroller {
  scroll-timeline-name: --rotate;
}
.item {
  animation: action 1ms linear;
  animation-timeline: --rotate;
}
```

```css hidden live-sample___named_scroll live-sample___anon_scroll
main {
  border: 1px solid;
  background-color: palegoldenrod;
}
div {
  position: relative;
}
span {
  --size: 50px;
  height: var(--size);
  width: var(--size);
  background-color: magenta;
  border: 1px solid;
  position: absolute;
  left: calc(50% - (var(--size) / 2));
  top: calc(50% - (var(--size) / 2));
}
```

In this case, we don't have a checkbox, as the `action` animation progression is controlled by the scrolling of the overflowing scroller, which, unlike time, does not expire.

{{EmbedLiveSample("named_scroll", "100%", "150")}}

> Before any scrolling occurs, the container's position is at the top of the scroller, and the animation is at the 0% keyframe. Try scrolling down. As you scroll, the animation progresses through the timeline, rotating an additional 720 degrees. When you can no longer scroll, the animation's progression is at the 100%, or `to`, keyframe. The animated item never returns to its default rotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before any scrolling occurs, the container's position is at the top of the scroller, and the animation is at the 0% keyframe. Try scrolling down. As you scroll, the animation progresses through the timeline, rotating an additional 720 degrees. When you can no longer scroll, the animation's progression is at the 100%, or `to`, keyframe. The animated item doesn't return to its default rotation unless the scroller is scrolled back up to the top.
```

This example uses all the same CSS as the previous example, except for the `animation-timeline`, which we set to a `scroll()` function. We are also overriding the size of the container to change the direction of the scroll:

```css live-sample___anon_scroll
.item {
  animation: action 1ms linear;
  animation-timeline: scroll(nearest inline);
}
.container {
  inline-size: 800px;
  block-size: 100%;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("anon_scroll", "100%", "150")}}

We set an {{cssxref("inline-size")}} on the container so that it overflows in the inline direction, and set the {{cssxref("block-size")}} to `100%`, so it no longer overflows in the block direction. Try scrolling in the inline direction.

### View progress timelines

> You can also progress an animation based on the change in visibility of an element inside a scroller — this is done via _view progress timelines_. Instead of tracking the scroll offset of a scroll container, view progress timelines track the relative position of an element, called the _subject_, within a scrollport. The progression of the animation is based on the _visibility_ of the subject inside the scroller. Unlike scroll progress timelines, with view progress timelines, you can't specify the scroller — the subject's visibility is always tracked within its nearest ancestor scroller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also progress an animation based on the change in visibility of an element inside a scroller — this is done via _view progress timelines_. Instead of tracking the scroll offset of a scroll container, view progress timelines track the relative position of an element, called the _subject_, within a scrollport. The progression of an animation's keyframes is based on the _visibility_ of the subject inside the scroller. Unlike scroll progress timelines, with view progress timelines, you can't specify the scroller — the subject's visibility is always tracked within its nearest ancestor scroller.
```

> When a view progress timeline is applied to an animated element, the animation's keyframe progression reflects the subject's position in the scroller. The animation only occurs when the element is visible within its scrollport. Timeline progress starts at `0%` when the tracked subject starts intersecting the scrollport at the block or inline end edge. The `100%` occurs when the subject exits the scrollport at the block or inline start edge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A view progress timeline animation only occurs when the element is visible within its scrollport. Timeline progress starts at `0%` when the tracked subject starts intersecting the scrollport at the block or inline end edge. The `100%` occurs when the subject exits the scrollport at the block or inline start edge.
```
